Now that I've shown you how to use
ingress controller, I want to show you
how to use external DNS.
In the previous lecture, I explained to you
how to setup an ingress controller.
On the public cloud providers, you can use
ingress controller to reduce the cost of your LoadBalancers.
You can use one LoadBalancer that captures all
the external traffic and send it to the ingress controller.
This as opposed to use many LoadBalancers,
one for every app.
The ingress controller can be configured
to route the different traffic to all your apps
based on HTTP rules, hosts and prefixes.
This only works for HTTP or HPS-based applications.
So you need to be able to apply rules based on
hosts and prefixes.
If your app doesn't do HTTP or HPS
then you cannot use this approach.
Then you just create a new LoadBalancer for that app.
One great tool to enable such approach is external DNS.
This tool will automatically
create the necessary DNS records
in your external DNS server, like for example, route 53.
For every hostname that you use in ingress,
it'll create a new record
to send traffic to your load balancer.
So it'll create this new record
in your DNS server like route53.
So that's what you're using when you host them
in your ingress control.
This hostname will be automatically created
and will be routed to the LoadBalancer to your ingress.
The major cloud DNS providers are supported.
Google Cloud DNS, route53, Azure DNS, Cloudflare,
Digital Ocean and so on.
All the setups are also possible
without ingress controllers.
For example, directly on the host's part
or using the node ports.
The node port is still a work in progress,
but it will be out soon.
Let me show you how the external DNS works with a diagram.
So we have the internet, we have two bolts
in our connect cluster,
we have the NGINX controller in one spot
and the external DNS in another spot.
We have one service in front of our ingress
and that service looks like LoadBalancer.
So that service sprung up the a list load balancer
on the left here.
We're going to add a few ingress rules.
There are three rules and these rules
will be led by NGINX ingress controller.
The external DNS tool will also read through those rules
and we'll see that it will create DNS records
for host X, example company host Y, example.
So external DNS will create those records
in a rotation tree.
For example can be any DNS provider.
So that host x and host y are going to point
to the a list LoadBalancer.
Then the client comes in,
is going to go to a list these three
to get the IP address or the host name.
For example, host x, example to come.
Route53 will apply the IP address.
The IP address will be off the LoadBalancer
so it will connect the LoadBalancer.
LoadBalancer will connect to the ingress service.
Ingress service will redirect the traffic
to the ingress controller.
Ingress controller will read the rules
and will see that it's the route this request to open one.
So that's how it works in a nutshell with external DNS
with the NGINX ingress controller
and an a list load balancer.
This setup I will show you in the next demo.